# Experimental-drilling
Methodology for further mining and drilling of experimental data.

## Business issues
- Impact Link: What is the impact path of the strategy on business indicators?
- Sensitive groups: Who are the sensitive groups of the strategy, and which users are more likely to generate revenue from strategy optimization?
- Non experimental strategy evaluation: If a strategy is launched without conducting experiments, how can we understand its impact on business indicators?

## How to solve problems?
### Data driven value presentation

| Demand scenario | Input | Output | Analytical ability |
|:---------------:|-------|--------|--------------------|
| The AB experimental strategy has an impact on the core indicators, and what is the mechanism of the impact of the strategy on the core indicators? | 1. Target indicators (business indicators for target improvement).<br>2. Intervention indicators (experimental strategies that require assessing business value).<br>3. User characteristics (optional, attributes that may affect value). | 1. The impact path of experimental strategies on core indicators.<br>2. Decoupling the impact of various intervention indicators on business indicators. | SCM scheme based on AB experiment. |
| Which users are more sensitive to performance indicators and have more opportunities to earn profits? | 1. Target indicators (business indicators for target improvement).<br>2. Intervention indicators (work indicators that require judgment of business value).<br>3. Confusion indicators (potential factors affecting value judgments).<br>4. User characteristics (attributes that may have an impact on value). | Sensitive user characteristics. | RCM+CATE scheme based on observation data/AB experiments. |
| If the strategy achieves full volume without conducting experiments and it is difficult to roll back the experiment, is it expected to understand whether the strategy has an impact on business indicators? | 1. Target indicators (business indicators for target improvement).<br>2. Strategy pushes the entire timeline.<br>3. Characteristics related to target indicators. | The degree of impact of strategy on business indicators. | RCM scheme based on observation data. |

### Data driven value transmission
1. **Clarify business issues and analysis objectives**. Understanding business requirements and identifying the problems that need to be analyzed and solved are crucial, which determines how to develop analysis plans and answer questions in the future.
2. **Clarify the representativeness of the data**. Before using data, understand the entire process of data processing from reporting to reporting, and clarify whether the data indicators have sufficient representativeness for the analysis objectives. Otherwise, unexpected analysis results may occur.
3. **Analyze the objectivity and rationality of the process**. Analysis should focus on the big picture and follow the principle of "potential cognitive set ->data validation ->cognition ->action optimization" rather than "subjective cognition already in mind ->attempting to find data validation ->the subjective cognition is valid ->action optimization". Due to the varying levels of expertise and perspectives on things among individuals, it is easy to overlook other more important factors, and the user base that is worth optimizing is usually limited, making it difficult to determine whether it is worth optimizing. On the contrary, when the user experience problem is significant enough to warrant optimization, the impact pattern can usually be captured in the data.
4. **Objective and rigorous conclusions**.
- 1. **Avoid using "AB experiment shows that xx index has an impact on business" or "reverse experiment shows that xx index is worth doing work"**. The experiment can only demonstrate that the optimized new strategy has an impact on business indicators, and further analysis and exploration are needed to determine how this strategy affects business indicators.
- 2. **Avoid cognitive rigidity**. Cognition comes from data conclusions, and as users' demands for experience change over time, historical cognition may not be applicable to the future. For example, optimizing xx performance indicators has brought business benefits, but further optimization may result in no benefits, which is in line with the basic understanding of diminishing marginal returns. Therefore, analysis needs to be continuously conducted, and cognition needs to be continuously updated.
- 3. **All data conclusions only represent possibilities**. All causal inferences will provide P-values and confidence intervals, which means that if the P-value is less than 0.05, it can only indicate a 95% probability that the indicator/strategy will have an impact, and even if no impact is later found, it is still interpretable. Similarly, if the P-value is greater than 0.05, it only indicates that there is no evidence to suggest that the indicator/strategy has an impact, but it does not mean that the indicator actually has no impact, and there is a 5% probability that the conclusion will be incorrect.
